## What is it?

A match configuration file contains everything that MatchZy and your server needs to host a series. This includes locking
players to their correct team and side, setting the map(s) and configuring the game rules.

**Note:** MatchZy can still be used for pug/scrim/practice without setting up matches (if `matchzy_kick_when_no_match_loaded` if set to `false`). Match setup is only required when you want to host a series and lock players in their correct team and side.

In this documentation, we'll see how we can setup a match in MatchZy using a JSON file (structure of the JSON file is given below).
There are 2 commands available which can be used to load a match:

1. `matchzy_loadmatch <filepath>`: Loads a JSON match configuration file relative to the `csgo` directory.
2. `matchzy_loadmatch_url <url> [header name] [header value]`: Loads a remote (JSON-formatted) match configuration by sending an HTTP(S) `GET` to the given URL. You may optionally provide an HTTP header and value pair using the `header name` and `header value` arguments. You should put all arguments inside quotation marks (`""`). (`""`).

## Example

!!! tip "Example only"
    
    Required fields: `"maplist"`, `"team1"`, `"team2"` and `"num_maps"``. If `"matchid"` is left empty, it will be auto-generated by the server.

```json title="csgo/astralis_vs_navi_27.json"
{
  "matchid": "27",
  "team1": {
    "name": "Astralis",
    "players": {
      "76561197990682262": "Xyp9x",
      "76561198010511021": "gla1ve",
      "76561197979669175": "K0nfig",
      "76561198028458803": "BlameF",
      "76561198024248129": "farlig"
    }
  },
  "team2": {
    "name": "NaVi",
    "players": {
      "76561198034202275": "s1mple",
      "76561198044045107": "electronic",
      "76561198246607476": "b1t",
      "76561198121220486": "Perfecto",
      "76561198040577200": "sdy"
    }
  },
  "num_maps": 3,
  "maplist": [
    "de_mirage",
    "de_overpass",
    "de_inferno"
  ],
  "map_sides": [
    "team1_ct",
    "team2_ct",
    "knife"
  ],
  "spectators": {
    "players": {
      "76561198264582285": "Anders Blume"
    }
  },
  "clinch_series": true,
  "players_per_team": 5,
  "cvars": {
    "hostname": "MatchZy: Astralis vs NaVi #27",
    "mp_friendlyfire": "0"
  }
}
```

This file can be loaded using :

1. `matchzy_loadmatch astralis_vs_navi_27.json` (if you have `astralis_vs_navi_27.json` in your `csgo` directory)
2. `matchzy_loadmatch_url "https://<url>/astralis_vs_navi_27.json"`


## Current Limitations?

1. Coaches cannot be added directly via this match configuration, hence to add a coach, add them to `"players"` key of the team and then use `.coach <teamside>` command in the server to start coaching.
2. Only Steam64id is supported currently.

These limitations will be resolved ASAP in the next updates! :D 
